[ENH] Added 3d viz projects (#305)
brown-ccv/ccv-website-content: services/visualization/software-catalog.md

---
title: Interactive 3D Visualization
icon: virtual-reality
---

Since its inception, **CCV** has been dedicated to supporting the academic community by developing interactive software designed to render and visualize datasets and models in **3D environments**. These environments can be displayed across a wide range of platforms, including:

- Monitors  
- VR headsets  
- Holographic displays  
- CAVE systems (Cave Automatic Virtual Environment)  

## Technologies We Use
To deliver high-quality solutions, we leverage the following technologies:

- **Unity 3D:** Creating immersive, real-time 3D applications  
- **WebXR:** Enabling cross-platform interactive experiences on the web  
- **Custom Engines:** Tailored engines for project-specific needs  

## Our Project Portfolio
Below we show a few of projects we have developed to enhance research, education, and exploration through interactive 3D visualization.

#### **[Draw On Air](https://ccv.brown.edu/our-work/software/cave-painting)** 
<p align="justify">

> DrawOnAir is a haptic-aided input technique for drawing controlled 3D curves through space. It's implementation was later called Cave-Painitng and used as an artistic medium that uses a 3D analog of 2D brush strokes to create 3D works of art in a fully immersive Cave environment. It is used for scientific research in the virtual reality thearther YURT at Brown University. The Center for Computation and Visualization (CCV).CCV collaborated to implemet a modified version of the software that extends its capabilites to HMD(VR) devices such as Oculus Quest and Samsung Odessy on Windows platforms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DrawOnAir is a haptic-aided input technique for drawing controlled 3D curves through space. Its implementation was later called Cave-Painting and used as an artistic medium that uses a 3D analog of 2D brush strokes to create 3D works of art in a fully immersive Cave environment. It is used for scientific research in the virtual reality theater YURT at Brown University. The Center for Computation and Visualization (CCV). CCV collaborated to implement a modified version of the software that extends its capabilities to HMD(VR) devices such as Oculus Quest and Samsung Odyssey on Windows platforms
```

</p>
<div>
      <img src="/content/images/3d-vr-projects/draw-on-air.gif" alt="Narragansett Bay" width="445" height="145" style="display: block; margin: auto;">
</div>

<br>

#### **VR-Hearts**
<p align="justify">

> A collaboration with the Biomedical Engineering Department at Brown University, this project enables students to visualize and analyze 3D models of hearts with various anomalies in real-time using VR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A collaboration with the Biomedical Engineering Department at Brown University. This project enables students to visualize and analyze 3D models of hearts with various anomalies in real-time using VR.
```

</p>
<div>
      <img src="/content/images/3d-vr-projects/vr-hearts.gif" alt="VR Hearts" width="445" height="145" style="display: block; margin: auto;">
</div>

#### **[Narragansett bay 3D viewer](https://ccv.brown.edu/our-work/software/vr-volume-viewer)**
The 3D volume of Narragansett Bay and Rhode Island Sound below displays predictions from the Ocean State Oceanographic Model for salinity levels on July 15, 2018, at low tide.

> This visualization supports transfer functions and animations, allowing users to explore salinity concentration at a specific date dynamically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This visualization supports transfer functions and animations which allow users to explore salinity concentration at a specific date dynamically.
```

 <div>
      <img src="/content/images/3d-vr-projects/narragensett-2.gif" alt="Narragansett Bay" width="445" height="145" style="display: block; margin: auto;">
    </div>

#### **Egyptology 3D*** 

> A small VR visualization of the inscriptions found in the Pipi Pyramid in Egypt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A VR visualization of the inscriptions found in the Pipi Pyramid in Egypt.
```
